# U6-JavaScript-DOM
1. Select an Element by ID - There is a two-step sequence when controlling an element in the DOM with JavaScript. First, you access the element, and then you can either read its contents or manipulate it somehow. There are several ways to access specific elements in the DOM. I'll select an element by its ID, with the getElementById() method.
2. Select Elements by Tag Name - knowing the tag name of the element, I can use getElementsByTagName(). This method returns an HTMLCollection of elements with the given tag name.
3. Select Elements by Class Name - When working with HTML, you'll often set class attributes on elements and apply styles to them with CSS. The document object provides a way to select elements in the DOM with a given class name with document.getElementsByClassName().
4. Use CSS Queries to Select Page Elements - querySelector() and querySelectorAll() are the most flexible of all the DOM selector methods. They accept ID's, classes, tag names, and just about any valid CSS selector.
5. Get and Set Content with textContent and innerHTML - Learned two properties that provide ways to read and update content in the DOM, textContent and innerHTML.
6. Change Element Attributes - HTML tags are converted into objects (called nodes) and placed into the DOM. Attributes exist as properties of element objects, like the href attribute of an <a> element or the action attribute of a <form> element. You get or set those attributes by way of properties, similar to the way you did earlier with an input element's value property and a heading's textContent property.
7. Set Inline Styles with the style Property - Like most other attributes, you can get and set the inline style of an element in the DOM with the style property. However, unlike most other attributes, the style property returns an object containing a list of CSS style properties.   
8. Create New DOM Elements - create new elements and add them to the page. First, I'll create a new element with document.createElement()
9. Append Nodes - I've learned how to create elements with JavaScript, but the newly created elements won't appear on the page until you add them to the DOM. Use the append() method to insert a new node inside a parent node.
10. Insert HTML at Specified Positions - Use the InsertAdjacentHTML method to insert elements into the DOM. This method provides more control over inserting HTML inside a parent. You pass it the HTML and text content to create as a string, and then that string gets parsed and inserted into the DOM at the position you specify.
11. Remove Nodes - A user might want to remove certain elements from the page in a browser-based app, like an item from a TODO list once completed. These actions require that we provide a way to remove a node from the DOM – like the node representing that list item or image element, for instance. One way to achieve this is with the remove() method.
12. Getting All Children of a Node with children - We can use properties to select elements based on their relationships with other elements. Here we'll select all the children of an element with the children property.
13. Traversing up the DOM with parentNode - Just as we can select all child elements of a node we can also select an element's parent with the parentNode property.